Again, my name is Ron Lu Saing.
I work on, among other things,
Cocoa bindings.
Our agenda today looks like this.
We'll start off with a conceptual
overview of Cocoa bindings,
a really brief overview.
Then we'll jump into some details
about the most commonly used bindings,
things that just about everybody
is going to use at some point.
After that,
I'll introduce some of the things that
we've added to Leopard in Cocoa Bindings,
and we'll wrap up with some practical
information about using the controllers
and bindings in Cocoa Bindings.
So we'll start off with the basics.
When we talk about a binding,
we're really talking about two things.
Cocoa bindings is really two things.
First,
a collection of reasonable controllers,
and an API for establishing a binding.
And what is a binding?
A binding is really a
contract between two objects.
And the idea is that you want to keep
the property of one object in sync
with some property in another object.
And if you write GUI applications today,
without Cocoa bindings especially,
you're probably spending a lot
of time doing exactly this,
trying to keep some property in
your view layer objects in sync with
another property in your model objects.
The idea behind Cocoa bindings
is to provide a set of reusable
controllers that manage the model
objects that you're dealing with,
and also a set of reusable-- so the other
thing about the reasonable controllers is
managing the notion of a user selection.
And that way,
when the user changes what's selected,
it can also be shown in
your view layer objects.
First though,
let's take a look at the reusable
controllers and Cocoa bindings.
Male function.
Okay.
If you've ever used Cocoa bindings,
chances are you've seen these little
green boxes in Interface Builder.
Everybody who's used Cocoa bindings at
some point has probably used Interface
Builder to set up their bindings.
They've seen controllers as this.
Cool little green squares.
And likewise,
in order to actually set up a binding,
you've probably also used the bindings
inspector in Interface Builder.
I want to make sure that everyone
realizes that even though it makes it
really easy to set up bindings and use
controllers by using Interface Builder,
it's possible to set up all of
these bindings and all of these
controllers directly in code.
There's no magic going on in
Interface Builder to do these,
to set up bindings.
There's one core method called that's
bind to object with keypath options.
And that's it.
That's what's going on behind
the scenes in Interface Builder
to set up these bindings.
And if you were to look at how to
set up a binding for a text field
that you're interested in keeping in
sync with some user default value,
this is the kind of code you would write.
You would take your text field instance,
bind its value to our
user defaults controller,
one of our reusable controller classes,
and use a key path like values.petname,
whatever you want to keep in
sync with the user defaults.
And that's the call.
That's exactly what Interface
Builder is doing behind the scenes.
So I want to make sure that nobody
thinks that there's any special magic.
It's all available to everybody.
Because this is just a method,
there is work going on
behind this method call,
right?
The object that you send this
message to has to do some work.
And the main obligation is--
To implement the binding, right?
To actually do the work
of keeping its value,
its whatever property is
represented by its binding,
in sync with whatever you bind it to and
the key path of the thing you bind it to.
And it's also up to that object to
interpret any of the options that are
passed in in the bind method as the
options dictionary that might affect
how the synchronization happens.
So a lot of the options that you
might see in Interface Builder really
come along as just dictionaries,
and it's up to whatever object implements
this bind method to interpret how
these options affect the binding.
And to actually do the work,
typically the object that you are
binding will listen for notifications,
key value observing notifications,
from the object that you're binding to.
So whatever controller you
bound your text field to,
for instance.
And making the synchronization
possible is key value coding.
Typically,
whatever is implementing the bind
method uses key value coding to
get values from its controller.
And also, when the user changes a
value in the user interface,
key value coding is used to set
the value in the controller.
So those are the obligations
of the bound object,
the object that you send
the bind message to.
Now the reusable controllers
that you would normally bind to,
they're there to implement some of
the logic that you would probably
have to implement yourself,
again, in any GUI-based app.
They do things for you like managing
the creation or deletion of objects or
handling the notion of user selection.
And the reusable
controllers that we ship,
Go along the lines of the common
classes that you would have,
the common data structures you
would have in your application.
So if there's a single object that
you're interested in handling,
one object at a time,
we have the NSObjectController.
For arrays of objects and
dealing with the notion of
sorting or filtering arrays,
handling selection in the array,
we have the ArrayController.
If you have a graph of objects
where each object has a relationship
to a set of child objects,
we offer the Tree Controller,
which keeps track of the
relationships between the objects.
And if you have just some
soup of key value pairs,
we offer two controllers.
First, the user defaults controller,
which deals with the key value pairs
you'll get from NS user defaults.
And new in Leopard,
we've added a dictionary controller,
which actually will take a dictionary
of key value pairs and convert it
into an array of key value pairs,
which makes it really useful for hooking
up table views for editing user info,
for instance.
Okay, so that was the brief overview.
I hope I made that brief enough.
Next, the commonly used bindings.
These are all the things that just
about everybody will end up using
if they're using bindings at all.
The format I'd like to take for this
part of the talk is I'll describe some
user interface and we'll go from there
with a certain binding and figure out
which controller and key path to use
in order to get to that user interface.
We'll start off with something simple.
User defaults.
Building a preferences panel.
In a simple example,
we just have a few text
fields and some check boxes,
and we're really just interested
in keeping whatever's in
the text field in sync with
whatever's in the user defaults.
So since we're interested in values,
we'll use the value binding.
And since we're interested in
synchronizing with the user defaults,
we'll use the NSUserDefaultsController.
So we'd simply set up a binding from
every text field we're interested
in to the UserDefaultsController.
It would look like this
in Interface Builder.
You would choose the
SharedUserDefaultsController
and use a controller key values,
which is a special key in the controller.
And then the model key path that we
would set is simply the value of whatever
user default key we're interested in,
the key of the user default key.
So in code, it would look like this.
We'd bind the text field's value
binding to the user defaults
controller with a key path,
values.authorName in this example.
So pretty simple, pretty straightforward.
And going along,
most of the other interfaces that
we'd be setting up with the value
binding look pretty much the same.
If we had an inspector instead
of a preferences panel,
we're still interested in
binding the value of a checkbox,
let's say.
But instead of a user
defaults controller,
we would bind to an object controller,
which holds the model object values.
But the binding looks
pretty much the same.
You're binding to a different controller,
and you're using a
different controller key,
using selection instead of values.
But you choose a key that you
want to store in the object,
and that's being held by
the object controller.
So in our example,
you would write a binding like this
to bind the checkbox value binding
to an object controller using the
keypath selection dot shadow enabled.
If you're interested in dealing with
a table view and an array of objects,
an array of model objects,
the natural choice would be
to use an array controller.
We're still using the value binding,
but now we can bind each
column in our table view.
We establish a value binding from
each column to the array controller
using a key path that represents
the value in the column we want to
display from each of the model objects.
So in our case here,
we bind our object column,
we bind its value binding to our
array controller using a key path
arranged objects dot object name,
some key.
And it's a similar
process for outline views.
Since outline views deal
with hierarchies of objects,
we would bind to a tree controller
and we would bind its column again
to a ranged objects dot sum key.
So it's a simple process.
They all look pretty much the
same for the value binding.
If instead of worrying about
the value held in a view,
we're interested in making sure that its
enabled state is kept in sync with some
other state or some other object value,
we can use the enabled binding.
If we were to look at an example
of enabling or disabling user
interface elements based on
some value in the user defaults,
we could establish-- oh, OK.
Imagine you don't want to be
able to edit the attributes of
the shadow unless you've said,
turn on shadows, right?
So we want this kind of user interface.
Whoops.
Everybody remember this slide?
Okay.
So we can bind to something like
the user defaults controller.
It doesn't really matter.
And the binding we would
establish is the enabled binding.
But the key path looks
pretty much the same.
Values.shadowEnabled.
So we'd establish a binding from
the text field or whatever control
to the user defaults controller.
And remember that we had already bound,
in an example,
the value of the checkbox for
whether or not the shadow is enabled.
So we're actually binding the value
binding and the enabled binding to the
exact same controller and key path.
So that way when the checkbox is toggled,
the related binding for the
enabled binding is also updated.
Straightforward?
So it's pretty common to bind to
some value in your model objects.
But don't forget that there are
other things that you can bind to.
Anything that's key value observing
compliant and key value coding compliant.
So there's lots of state
that's held in your application
as well as the controllers.
So actually, I'm getting ahead of myself.
I just want to show an example of
binding to the controller selection.
Again,
we set up a value binding going back.
We set up a value binding for the shadow
checkbox and the enabled binding to the
same key path and controller combination.
Something to consider,
you can actually set up multiple
enabled bindings on the same object.
So imagine that there's
more than just one state,
more than just one reason for
something to be enabled or disabled.
Instead of having to create some
accessor for it that aggregates all
of the information that's required
to figure out is it enabled or not,
you can set up multiple enabled
bindings to different controllers,
different keypads.
And the result of each individual
enabled binding is added together
so that you're only enabled if all
of the enabled bindings say yes.
And this is one of a class of-- oh, OK,
here we go.
So this is what it looks
like in Interface Builder,
right?
We've established one enabled binding.
And I don't know if you can
see at the bottom there,
we have enabled two
automatically pops up for us.
If we set up a second enabled binding,
So now I'll do enabled two.
We see down at the bottom,
enabled three pops up.
And it goes on and on like this.
There is a limit.
I'm not telling you.
And the enabled binding is actually one
of three bindings that we describe as
availability bindings because they deal
with whether or not a control is enabled,
editable, or hidden.
And the bindings are
actually called enabled,
editable, and hidden.
Pretty straightforward.
And they all support
that enumeration feature,
multiple bindings of the same name.
Okay,
this is where I'd wanted to go before.
So remember that you can bind to anything
that is key value observing compliant.
So not only does your application
have a lot of interesting state
that might drive whether or not
something is enabled in the UI,
but the controllers actually
keep some state themselves based
on what the user has selected,
some other state,
some other values in the controller.
So you could actually bind to whether
or not there are any changes in,
unsafe changes in the
user defaults controller,
or whether or not an array controller
considers itself editable at all.
Also,
whether or not we should be able to add
or remove objects to an array controller.
And you can also do funny things
like figuring out whether or not
there are any objects available
to display at all using a key path
like arranged objects dot at count.
And you can play the same
trick with the selection.
So that, you know,
you can actually bind to whether
or not there are any changes in
the user defaults controller.
But you might not want to
enable removing an object,
any,
might not want to enable a remove button
if there's nothing selected to remove.
So we've gone over the value binding,
we've gone over the enabled binding.
This section on pop-up buttons
isn't about any particular binding,
it's about setting up bindings
for the pop-up buttons.
One of the things about the pop-up
button that makes it so great
is it's really configurable.
You can set it up in many different
ways and you can figure out what's
selected in many different ways.
What that means though is that there
are lots of different ways to set
up the bindings for pop-up buttons.
I want to try and walk you you all
through setting up these bindings.
We can look at all the bindings for
the pop-up button in two classes.
First, there are the set of bindings
that deal with what's selected.
On that side.
And then there are the set of bindings
that deal with what objects are actually
put into the pop-up dynamically.
I'll look first at all of the
bindings that deal with the selection.
So for this, let's imagine a simple case.
We've set up a pop-up button,
NIB probably, by hand.
So it has all of its menu
items set up statically.
There are four bindings for dealing with
what's selected in that pop-up button.
Selected value, selected tag,
selected index, and selected object.
They're all mutually exclusive,
so you can only bind one.
So you have to know what you're
interested in in the pop-up first.
But keep in mind that you can set
up a pop-up that has just a title,
or you can set the tag of
each menu item in the pop-up.
Or you might only care about the
index of the item that's selected.
And likewise, you can set a represented
object for each menu item.
So for each of those cases where
you've set up your menu item by hand,
you can use any of these
selected bindings to figure out
which menu item is selected.
Let's take a quick look at each of them.
Again, imagine that you've set up the
menu items for your pop-up,
probably statically.
And you're only interested
in the selected value,
so whatever label,
whatever title is selected
in the menu items.
You can set up a binding like this.
You bind the selected value of
the pop-up to some controller
using the key path that you want
to be set in the controller.
So if you're interested in
the name of the last user,
you'll get Miguel set in your
user defaults controller.
And just an aside,
this is what it would look like
if you were to set it up in code.
And for each of the other things that
you can check in the selected menu item,
there's a binding, right?
There's the selected tag binding.
If you've set tags on
each of your menu items,
it looks pretty much the same,
but it takes a tag value, an integer.
And if you're only interested in
the index of the selected item,
then we have a binding for that,
the selected index binding.
And if you've set up the
represented object and you're
interested in the actual object
that backs your menu items--
You can use the selected object binding.
So that's what the four
selection bindings are about.
Now, you might set up your menu items,
your pop-up buttons menu items by hand
in IB or even in code by yourself,
but we can give you some help if
you just have an array that you want
to be shown in your pop-up button.
And that's what these
content bindings are for.
There are three bindings for
setting up the content of a pop-up,
and only two of them can
be used on their own.
Those are the content values
binding and the content binding.
The idea behind the content values
binding is we'll take an array of
strings and turn each string in the
array into a menu item with that title.
And we'll also set the represented object
of each menu item to be that string.
So we figure out,
you probably want the string
as a represented object.
You don't have to do anything else.
The content binding takes
an array of just ID objects.
And what we'll do there is we'll
assume each object in that array
should be the represented object
for the menu items we create.
In order to figure out what titles
should be in the menu items,
we turn around and we ask each object
you handed us for its description.
So there are two ways to set up these
bindings that automatically figure
out what the title and the represented
object for each menu item should be.
Oh, and there's no way to tell us
what tag to put in each menu item.
We just figure that the same
value as the index would be fine.
So we automatically set the tag of each
menu item to be its index in the menu.
So if we were to use the content
values binding to set up some pop-up,
we might bind to an array in our
document that returns a string.
And we'll directly create a
pop-up with those menu items.
And again, we'll create tags for each of
those menu items that corresponds
to its index in the menu.
Using the content binding,
you return just an array of objects.
And for each of those objects,
you'll get its description,
and that will become the menu item title.
So that's the recap of
content values and content.
And keep in mind that all
the selected bindings,
the selection star bindings,
are available still with those cases.
If you've used the content binding,
like I showed you,
we'll just figure the represented
object should be the object
that you handed us in the array,
and the title should be
the object's description.
If you want to fine tune that and
customize what's shown in each
menu item or what the represented
object for each menu item is,
you can use the content binding in
combination with either the content
values or the content objects binding.
In all cases, though,
we'll infer which-- we'll infer the tag
for each menu item should be its index.
So again, if you want to customize the
way the title is created,
you can use the content values binding
in concert with the content binding.
And the content objects binding
will be using with the content
binding to customize what the
represented object should be.
And in both of these cases,
they should have pretty much the
same settings as the content binding.
That means bind to the same
controller and the same key path
up to the last key component.
So you can add one extra
key to the content values or
the content objects binding.
I'll show you what I mean in a second.
So here we've bound,
if you look at the bottom left,
bottom right,
we've bound to the same array controller
that we bound our content binding
to and almost the same key path.
It starts off with arranged objects
just like our content binding does,
but in addition we add
the model key name.
So this way,
using the content and content
values binding together,
we get an array of objects,
put those objects as the represented
objects in our menu items,
And then take the name of each of
those represented objects and put that
in as the title of each menu item.
Okay, lots of text, sorry.
But you can also bind with the content
and content objects bindings together.
And it's the same effect,
except now you're customizing
what the represented object
is instead of the title.
And you can actually bind all three.
Oh, if you're going to bind the
content objects binding,
keep in mind that that only really
makes sense if you're interested
in what the selected object is.
Remembering that selected object
binding keeps track of what
the represented object of the
menu item that's selected is.
And again, like I said,
you can bind all three together.
So you can start off with a base array
that we get from the content binding.
And then we'll customize the titles
of each menu item we generate based
on the content values binding.
And the represented object for each
of those menu items is customized
by the content objects binding.
You can use all three together.
But again, if you're using the
content objects binding,
you're probably most interested in
the selected object binding later on,
just to keep that in mind.
Yeah, so lots of options.
I swear it's easier to
use than to explain.
But OK.
So common bindings,
we're on to binding controllers
to other controllers.
Up till now we've talked mostly
about binding views to controllers.
You can actually bind one
controller to another.
Typically you would do this
to set up what we describe
as a master detail interface.
The idea behind a master detail interface
is you're given some object and you're
not really interested in that object.
You're really interested in something
that's related to that object.
So if you were to have an array of
people and each person has a picture,
you're really interested in the pictures,
but you have to navigate through
every person in your array in
order to find the pictures.
So the UI would typically
look something like this,
right?
Where we have an array
of people on the left,
and the selection in that table
view of people drives what is shown
in the detail view on the right.
In order to set this up, again,
we're binding one controller to another.
The idea is we'll take a master
controller that deals with selection.
It doesn't matter
whether it's the object,
array, or tree controller.
And that's what drives the master
side of our user interface.
And then we take whatever controller is
necessary to build our detail interface
and we bind it to the master controller.
So again, we take the detail controller,
in this case our array
controller for pictures,
and bind its content array
binding to the master controller
using the keypath selection dot,
in our case, pictures.
So we're basing the content of
the detail controller on what's
selected in the master controller.
That's all it is, very simple concept.
Now though, imagine that we're dealing
with multiple objects selected
in the master controller.
Something that might not be
obvious initially is what happens
when you have multiple objects
selected in the master controller.
Because now you have multiple choices
for what to display in the detail.
Should you display only the first set of
pictures from the first selected person?
Dealing with this might not be
obvious how to deal with this.
You might want all of the pictures
of all the selected people.
But using just the content array
binding doesn't give you that.
But we do have,
and also if you're dealing
with multiple selected people,
you probably aren't going to use the
content binding or the object controller.
So we'll focus on just the
array and the tree controller.
[Transcript missing]
Okay,
actually that's the summary of all the
common bindings that people will use,
well some of the common bindings.
Now this is, I'll talk about some of the
new things we've added to
Cocoa Bindings for Leopard.
The first thing is you can now
do drag and drop with an outline
view bound to a tree controller.
The magic that happened-- no, wait,
there's no magic.
All that we do is now we actually
have a real object that can
represent each node in the tree
that the tree controller manages.
That's the NSTree node.
It's a really simple object.
It has three core properties, right?
There's a represented
object that it handles,
and that's the model object that you're
handing it from your tree of objects.
It also keeps a notion of a parent
object and an array of child objects.
So that way you don't have to manage
a back pointer in your model objects.
And it also knows where it is
in the tree of other tree nodes.
So you can get to that
using an index path,
which is a class we also introduced
in Tiger to represent exactly this,
a path through a tree.
So now that we have a real class
to describe each node in the tree,
we can use it.
In Leopard,
and in the seed that you guys got,
the tree controller will vend
NSTree nodes through two methods.
The selected nodes,
which returns just an array of nodes
that represent what objects are selected.
And arranged objects on the tree
controller returns a proxy that lets
you navigate through the entire arranged
tree as just going node by node.
And you can use tree node API on
that proxy to start descending
through all of the arranged nodes.
And the API looks roughly like this.
You can either use descendant
node at index path if you already
know where you're going to go.
Or you can go one child node at a time
and just get the array of immediate
child nodes and traverse down from that.
Going back to the drag and
drop with outline view thing,
the real API that enables drag and drop
makes it really easy is the move node
API that we've added to Tree Controller.
And this is a consumer for tree nodes.
You pass it an array of tree
nodes or a single tree node and
we'll take that and put it in,
we'll place it in the
index path you describe.
So using this,
it's really easy to set up drag
and drop in an outline view
bound to a Tree Controller.
The process is pretty straightforward.
You set up a tree controller the way you
normally would given a children key path,
a way to navigate through
your model objects.
And you bind the columns of your
outline view to the tree controller.
And you would set a custom class
like either your files owner or
subclass of NS tree controller as
the data source for the outline view.
You only have to implement the
drag and drop data source methods.
You don't have to implement any
of the others you might be used to
for the outline view data source.
And in these drag and drop methods,
you're passed items
from the outline view,
right?
These items are now NS tree nodes
in the bound outline view case.
And so now you can take a
look at all the represented
objects that item in the tree.
And you can take a look at where the item
is in the arranged tree by index path.
So you can call represented
object on the item.
You can also call index path on the item.
And then once you're ready to
actually do the move of nodes or
drop a node into a new location,
you can use TreeController
move node to index path.
You can also directly mutate
the child nodes of each item.
You can get access to that using
the mutable child nodes method
and treat it just like an array.
This is a key value observing
compliant array that you'll get.
And something about mutating these nodes,
adding new nodes to the array,
to the mutable child nodes,
will fix up the relationships
between the represented objects
in each of those nodes as well.
So this works great for the case
of core data in your outline views,
right, using core data managed objects.
And something to note,
NSTreeNode is a useful class
outside of NSTreeController as well.
You can use it just to build ad hoc trees
on your own just using TreeNode API.
It doesn't depend on bindings
or the TreeController at all.
Okay,
so that's new tree controller stuff.
The other controller information we have
is we've added a dictionary controller.
So why did we add a
dictionary controller?
Commonly, well, at least a lot of people
claim it's common.
Is it true?
That you want to edit dictionaries
in your user interface,
something like you have a user info
dictionary or anything like that,
and you want to show the dictionary's
keys and values in a table view.
It's typically difficult,
it's challenging at least,
to set up an array controller to
transmogrify a dictionary into an
array and show it in the table view
and then actually handle the editing
and everything all on your own.
Well, the dictionary controller is
there to handle that for you.
It's a simplification of that process.
It's a subclass of the array controller,
which means it's really easy
to set up with a table view.
And it does everything
that you would expect,
stuff that you would have to do yourself.
Converting the dictionary into
an array of key value pairs,
making sure that certain keys are
always visible or maybe never visible.
And it even supports localization
using a set dictionary,
localization dictionary method,
or using a strings file.
And typically,
you don't want to show the raw
keys in your dictionary to users,
right?
You could actually set up a pretty
UI with pretty keys in your table view.
And there's more information
on this in the documentation.
Setting up a dictionary controller with
a table view looks just like setting up
an array controller with a table view.
When you get the arranged objects
from a dictionary controller though,
they only have two keys,
a key and a value.
That's pretty much it.
You get keys and values out
of the dictionary as keys
and values in your array.
And like I mentioned,
you can make sure that certain
keys are always visible so that
your user isn't presented with
just an empty array the first time,
an empty table view the first
time they see your editor.
So you can use the set
included key method,
this included keys method.
But slides are boring.
Let's do a demo.
Were they that boring?
Sorry.
OK.
We have a simple application here.
I used Core Data just because it was
faster to set up the demo that way.
We have just a person
entity and a photo entity.
Every person has an array
or a collection of photos,
right?
Let's take a look at our nib.
This is our nib.
We'll build a simple editor UI just
for looking at people and their photos.
We'll start off with a window.
So we have a few outlets in our .h.
So we'll set up the outline view
and the tree controller in our nib.
So we'll have names and favorite drinks.
Do multiple selection.
Drag over a tree controller.
The first thing we'll set up before
we forget is the children key path.
This tells the tree controller
how to traverse from one
object to its related object.
And in our case,
every person has a photo.
Photos.
And if we look at our model,
we've also set up a special
attribute on each entity,
the notion of isLeaf.
We could name it whatever we want,
but it's useful for us to know that
a person can contain other objects,
but photos can't.
is leaf is yes for photos and is
leaf is no for person objects.
So we'll tell the tree controller to take
a look at that before it tries to go off
and get any photos for photo objects.
We're using Core Data,
so we'll switch to entity
mode in this inspector.
And the Tree Controller will
fetch person objects.
And it should fetch it automatically,
so I'll turn on the prepares
content setting here.
Since we can't fetch objects
in the TreeController without
a managed object context,
we'll go over here and bind the
TreeController's managed object context.
You might have noticed here our files
owner is a persistent document subclass.
That comes with its own
managed object context.
So we'll just bind to the files
owner managed object context.
Okay, you guys need to check to make
sure that I spelled that right.
That looks okay.
Okay.
Let's add some buttons.
I like buttons.
Since we're dealing with hierarchies,
we can do more than just add, right?
We can do add child.
We can wire these actions up to
the tree controller directly.
So we have add actions.
Add child and if we look
at the received actions,
I also have remove.
And now we'll set up the
bindings for the columns.
For the name column,
we go to the value binding,
the tree controllers,
arranged objects dot name.
And for the drink,
Now, in this outline view,
since we're dealing with
a tree of objects again,
we'll start off with person objects,
which all have a name and a drink,
a favorite drink associated with them.
But then we'll also show photo objects.
And photos don't have drinks.
And we don't want our
app to tell us that,
you know, we already know that.
So we'll turn off the raises
for not applicable keys.
That means that when we get
a key value coding exception
that photos don't have drinks,
we'll ignore it and we'll keep running,
right?
We'll also turn off creating sort
descriptors since we're not going
to be able to sort on drinks if
photos don't have a drink attribute.
Now we'll set ourself as the
data source for the outline view.
We also have the outlet to the
outline view that we're interested in.
And we also want to know
about the tree controller.
So with those things set,
we can take a look at the .m.
The first thing we do,
window controller did load nib,
we'll register for drag types.
This is part of the setting
up the outline view to be
able to support drag and drop.
Just come up with a key, nodes.
And all we're really interested in is
knowing that we're about to start a drag.
So in order to do the right
items to the pasteboard,
we just put an empty array,
an empty string up there,
but we hang on to the array that's
passed to the right items method.
This array is just an array of tree nodes
that's been selected to start the drag.
The rest of the methods that
you're used to for drag and drop,
the validate drop method,
will just make sure that,
among other things,
you can't drop into an object like,
you can't drag photos inside of photos.
Make sure that you're not trying
to drag within the same parent.
And always drag into a person,
not just photo on top of photo.
And it's always a move operation.
So most of this is just
general type checking,
information checking that you
would normally have to do with
implementing drag and drop anyway.
And here is the real meat of the
drag and drop implementation.
That's actually performing the drop,
accepting the drop.
We've cached away the dragged nodes,
as you saw earlier.
We're just going to move those
nodes to the new location.
So item is the tree node that's going
to be the destination for the drop.
And the child index is the child
index in that item's child nodes.
So we can create an index path,
starting with that item's index path.
and just adding its child index.
And the move is done.
So let's try it.
Okay, add, add, add.
Let's see, Bill likes gin.
Kind of a rum guy myself.
So we're adding some photos.
We can just name them.
So you can see we've created the
disclosure triangle for things that
are person objects since those have
child objects and photos don't.
We can sort on name, drink.
We've disabled sorting when we
turned off create sort descriptors.
And we can do drag and drop.
One of the things about
using the move nodes API,
it's much better for the tree
controller as far as being able
to keep track of the selection.
If you were to simply mutate
the relationships underneath
the tree controller,
we'd try our best to keep
track of the selection,
but it's really much better to do this.
So that's drag and drop.
Let's take a look though at
the dictionary controller.
Let's add a tab.
So I don't have that much screen space.
I want an editor for both the user
info and for the picture data.
Let's see.
The user info will need a table view.
Kind of getting ahead of myself, though.
We're going to need a dictionary
controller to feed the table view.
And since we want this to be a
detail of whatever's selected
in the person outline view,
we'll bind the content dictionary
of the dictionary controller to
the tree controller's selection
and the user info dictionary.
of that selection.
And again,
since not all objects have a user info,
only person objects have user info,
not photos, we'll turn off the raises for
not applicable keys here too.
We can add some buttons.
Set those up to add in the
dictionary controller and remove
in the dictionary controller.
Let's see,
remember about the enabled bindings?
Let's take a look at using them here.
We only want to be able to add or
remove when a user is selected.
So if the user is selected,
The dictionary controller has any
content via the user info binding,
the content binding here.
It'll actually set itself as editable.
Otherwise,
it will consider itself not editable.
So if the dictionary
controller is non-editable,
then we shouldn't allow
adding or removing.
So we'll just bind the
add and remove buttons.
But see,
we don't want to enable them just
because the controller is editable.
We'd also want to make sure that
you can remove things that the
dictionary controller's notion
of can remove is also satisfied.
So here's that using multiple
enabled bindings also.
Okay, we'll go off and set up the
dictionary controller to provide
data in the form of a key.
And a value to each of these columns.
Let's name them.
And if I set this up correctly,
So we add some person objects.
We add a photo for each person.
Sure enough.
So we've selected a photo
which doesn't have user info,
so we've disabled this part of the UI.
And now we can add,
since we've selected Bill.
So session, I think he's 248, 249.
Then we can remove.
Pretty cool.
Oh, but actually we always want the
session information to show up.
We're at WWDC.
Somebody's got to give a session.
Let's go back to the dictionary
controller and under the attributes
we can set the included keys.
These are keys that
will always be present.
So session name.
And then also, we don't want the UI for
the table view to be enabled
unless absolutely necessary.
So we'll do the same trick here,
binding to isEditable.
And let's take a look at the photo.
We combine the data of the image
well to the tree controller's
selection and its image data,
and it will directly create an image from
the NSData that's in our managed objects.
And I actually don't like
switching between tabs like this.
I'll use a pop-up button.
[Transcript missing]
Then we can bind the selected index of
the tab view to the exact same thing.
Selected index.
So now when we change the
selection in this pop-up,
it'll change the selection
for us in the tab view.
So then we can go with
a tabless tab view.
Now that I think of it,
we should only be editable when
we can actually drag in a photo.
So when the tree controller has selected,
has a photo selected.
Okay, so user info, photo,
that didn't work.
There we go.
Let's try this.
Let's open up an existing file.
Yep, cool, sweet.
And yeah, we still have drag and drop.
We didn't break that.
Cool.
But actually,
I don't like the pop-up either.
The selected tab should really track
what's selected in the outline view.
We only have two things
that could be selected.
We have isLeaf as a property
on each of the two things.
They return different values.
We could use a little trick here.
We bind to the controller's
selection.isLeaf.
The selected tab should really track
what's selected in the outline view.
We only have two things
that could be selected.
We have isLeaf as a property
on each of the two things.
They return different values.
We could use a little trick here.
We bind to the controller's
selection.isLeaf.
Thanks a lot.
So I have a few minutes
in which to wrap up.
The wrap up is practical
information about,
first, some of the reusable
controllers that we ship.
As you might have seen with the example,
your interaction with the controllers
should look something like this.
You provide it with content,
either using a binding or by specifically
calling setContent on the binding.
And then you set the object
class name for the controller.
So that affects which class of object is
created whenever you hit the new or new
button that's attached to a controller.
So once you've set the content and
set up the controller properly,
then the controller just
manages everything for you.
It deals with arranging the objects.
For like the array controller,
you could imagine it automatically
deals with filtering or
sorting the objects for you.
It also deals with the
notion of the user selection,
keeping track of which
object is selected,
and dealing with what happens
when the add button is pressed,
creating new objects,
or the delete button is pressed,
deleting the objects.
The object life cycle
of your model objects.
I love managed objects.
And when you're binding
to these controllers,
there's a certain pattern you'll get
into with each of the controllers.
When you're binding to a
user defaults controller,
you'll almost always be
interested in using the values
key as the controller key.
Some key path like values.name.
With the object controller,
it's a little different.
You're normally going to bind to the
selection in the object controller,
which is always one object,
but still pretty useful.
With the array, tree,
and dictionary controllers,
since you can use these to populate
UI like table views and outline views,
you'll either be binding
to the arranged objects dot
something of these controllers,
if you're populating
the columns of a view,
or if you're dealing
with a single object,
a single control,
like a checkbox or a single
text field outside of a table,
then you're probably going to bind to a
key path like selection dot something.
[Transcript missing]
So multiple objects in the selection,
for example.
But the accessors,
selected objects and content,
are just that.
They're accessors.
They're not proxies.
They don't have any special behavior.
They don't do anything special
that's useful for some of these other
bindings that we just showed you.
They're really just arrays.
And they're interesting from the
standpoint of getting information out of
the controller in just the array form.
And when you subclass these controllers,
you're probably interested in a
few things when you're subclassing.
If you're subclassing any of the
object controller subclasses,
meaning array controller,
tree controller,
or dictionary controller,
you're probably interested in handling
the new object creation especially.
So you can override the method
new object that deals with how new
objects are added or created when
they're added to the controller.
Another reason for subclassing
the array controller is you're
interested in tweaking the way
filtering or sorting works by default.
So you can override the
method arrange objects,
which takes an array,
and you return an array
of arranged objects.
And for the dictionary controller,
you're probably going to
want to override both.
The new object method is where the
new key value pairs are created
that are added to the array.
And arrange objects is also
available if you want to do custom
filtering and sorting again.
Subclassing the Tree Controller got
more interesting with Leopard.
We added some methods for navigating
the model objects in a special way.
Normally, in Tiger,
you only had one option as far
as key paths for navigating
through your model objects.
And you usually had to create
extra accessors or categories
in order to make this work.
Now you can subclass the
Tree Controller and have some
say on a per-object basis,
getting the represented object
out of a node and figure out what
the correct children or leaf or
count key path for that object is.
And I've said it before,
I want to make sure everybody's heard it.
The actions that we hooked up to
these buttons in Interface Builder,
they're meant for being
used in Interface Builder,
right?
If you send an array
controller an add message,
like the one you have here,
the action method,
then you're going to be surprised
when you immediately ask for the
count of objects in the controller.
They won't have changed.
These methods do their work delayed,
so you'll have to wait.
There are methods, though,
there are analogs for each of these
that do their work immediately.
So instead of add,
you can use the add object method
and add an object directly,
similar to the remove object at
index sort of methods that are
available on all the controllers.
Basically, anything that takes a
sender on the controllers,
you won't see the effects immediately.
That's done so that we can, by default,
produce some UI in Sheets.
Sheets displaying any errors that
happened while we tried to do the work.
So wrapping up the final bits,
some practical info about using bindings.
If you ever see an error
like this in your log,
Well, it doesn't really tell you anything
other than something didn't have a
key value coding key for something.
If you turn on a default though,
and it's binding debug log level
to anything greater than one,
there's really only one
log level right now.
Then we'll log a little
bit more information that
describes like which key path,
which object,
and which object you were trying to bind,
which object was involved,
like the text field that
was involved in the binding.
Like what failed.
So you'll get a little bit more
information to try and track
down where your bad key is.
You might also see some errors like
this where an observer isn't key
value coding or key value observing
compliant for some key path.
And the same thing applies here.
If you turn on the debug logging,
then we'll show you a
little bit more information,
which key path was involved,
the object that you were binding to,
and the object that was bound.
So this might help in tracking down
any bad key paths or bad bindings.
And remember that trying to observe
directly like key or name on an
array or a set isn't supported.
Don't observe the collection.
Try and observe the relationship.
So the owning object is what
you should be observing.
So observe a person's photos,
not the array of photos directly.
And another thing that you might see is
that while trying to dealloc an object,
there were still key value observing
observers registered with it.
Remember that trying to unbind or
unregister observers in dealloc
of your object is too late.
You actually need to have some cleanup
code like commonly in your Windows,
window will close or your
window controller methods.
You can tear down all of the
bindings using the unbind method.
A note about circular references.
So in bindings, the bound object retains
the object it's bound to.
So that means that for our text field
with a value binding that's bound to
an object or user defaults controller,
then the text field will
retain the controller.
And going down,
if you bound the content of
the controller to file's owner,
hypothetically, the object controller
will retain the object.
And that's what we call a bound
object retains the object.
So if you have a setter,
you have an outlet to
the object controller,
and your setter retains the controller.
I mean, what else would it do?
You've suddenly got a retain cycle.
So that means you'll be leaking parts
of your UI if you close this window,
right?
Or you could get spurious messages,
key value observing messages.
It's important that you break this
retain cycle using something like
unbind or setting the content of the
controller to nil before trying to
get rid of the rest of your UI here.
Something to note,
on applications linked on or after Tiger,
if files owner is a window
controller subclass,
this should just work.
And also, this should just work if
you use garbage collection,
right?
Okay.
And please, in order for bindings to
do its work efficiently,
it uses key value observing a lot.
So if you make changes in a non-key
value observing compliant manner,
we're probably not going to get the
notification that anything changed.
And so suddenly you'll see
your UI has stopped updating.
So make sure that all of the
changes in your objects that you're
interested in putting into your view,
those changes have to be done in a
key value observing compliant manner.
There's lots of documentation
on what that means.
Please take a look.
So I mentioned that bindings,
a binding is a contract between two
objects where you're keeping the
property of one object in sync with
the property of another object.
And that's the core concept
behind Cocoa bindings,
right?
That's what we're trying to achieve.
But you have,
you as the owner of these UIs have a part
of that contract to uphold yourselves.
That is,
make changes in the right places.
So it'd be breaking the contract
to try and change the value of
your model objects by going through
the setter in your text field and
hoping that the binding will push
the value down to your model object.
The text field takes user events.
The binding pushes the resulting
values down to the model objects.
If you want to make changes
to values in your controller,
make changes there in the controller.
Or you can make changes
directly on the model objects.
Don't try and go in a circular route
through your user interface elements.
There's some important information
that you can check the documentation
about the other bindings methods,
the other key value binding methods.
Bind is an important one.
Equally important is unbind.
There's also the info for binding method,
which gives you some information
about established bindings,
which is great for being able to validate
parts of your UI are actually hooked up.
You can use this programmatically.
And please take a look at the
NS Editor and NS Editor Registration
informal protocols,
which bindings use a lot to make
sure that things like changes in your
text fields are actually sent down
to your controllers and your model
objects when you close a window,
for example.
So the summary,
Cocoa Bindings is at its core two things.
A collection of reusable
controller classes and an
API for establishing bindings,
keeping the property of one object in
sync with the property of another object.
That's the core concept.
And I want everybody to take a look at
some of the new features in Leopard.
The NS Tree node,
NS Tree controller changes,
the new dictionary controller.
We've also added a new binding
option to the pop-up button that
I didn't get a chance to show you.
All this stuff is well documented.
And for more information, see Derek.
Actually, where is Derek?
Well, find Derek.
There's plenty of sample code
for these things as well,
good documentation.
And if you want to ask
more questions about it,
there's a practice lab,
Cocoa Bindings and
Practice Lab on Thursday,
Core Data Lab on Thursday as well.
There's an AppKit lab.
Wow, all the labs are on Thursday.
Good Lord.
So live in the lab on Thursday.